IMSCRIPT
========

Imscript is a language to express simple image processing operations.
The goal is that safe online implementations of the language are
trivially easy to deploy.  Each of the simple image processing
operations is available as a separate, standalone program.


LANGUAGE OVERVIEW
-----------------

Imscript is a stack-based language: it describes the evolution of a
stack of images.  A program is a sequence of instructions.  Each
instruction consists of an instruction name and a fixed number of
parameters.  A typical instruction pops one image from the top of the
stack, processes this image, and pushes the result at the top of the
stack.

As an example, the following program loads an image from an URL,
equalizes its histogram, and saves the result to a file:

	load http://path/to/lena.png
	histeq
	save /path/to/eqlena.png

As a more complicated example, the following program performs a
half-pixel displacement via Fourier interpolation:

	load http://path/to/lena.png
	fft
	lambda "exp(-i*PI*(real(x)+imag(x)))"
	mul
	ifft
	save /pat/to/traslena.png


LIST OF INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------

The following instructions should be more or less obvious, but it
would be nice to document each one separately.  Each instruction
takes a fixed number of images from the stack and pushes back a fixed
number of results.  These numbers are different for each instruction.
For example, the "sum" function computes the sum of the two images at
the top of the stack, and puts the result at the top.  The arguments
to the instructions are never deleted.


input/output:

	load FILENAME
	load URL
	save FILENAME


stack manipulation:

	dup
	rot
	del
	swap IDX
	copy IDX


image operations:

	axpb A B
	normalize BLACK WHITE
	crop X0 Y0 XF YF
	resample W H
	lambda EXPRESSION
	gnoise SIGMA
	gblur SIGMA
	fft
	ifft
	histeq
	histmatch
	tr X Y
	aff A B P C D Q
	hom H1 ... H9
	randtr SIGMA MU
	sum
	mul
	quantize
	linconv3x3 K1 ... K9
	linconv4x4 K1 ... K16
	erosion R
	dilation R


programming:
	def NAME STRING




SYNTAX OF THE LAMBDA FUNCTION
-----------------------------

The call

	lambda "expression"

pops n images from the stack, where n is the number of variables on
the expression.  Each variable corresponds to an image (in
alphabetical order) and the expression is evaluated pixel-wise to
produce a single output image.  The variables admit two kind of
modificators, to access a neighboring pixel, and to access a
particular component of a pixel.  There are further variables ":w,
:h, :n, :i, :j, :x, :y, :r, :t" contaning the width, height, number
of pixels, and the coordinates of the current pixel in various
coordinate systems.

Examples:

	lambda "a*x + b" == faxpb
	lambda "x(1,0) - x" == forward differences in horizontal direction
	lambda "x - x(-1,0)" == backward differences in horizontal direction
	lambda "0.3*x[0] + 0.6*x[1] + 0.1*x[2]" == color to gray


# vim:set tw=69 filetype=text:
